Frequently asked questions
==========================

The following questions were raised in feedback rounds of previous iterations of
this training. To make the answers available, we created this page.

How do I know if I'm progressing with the correct speed?
What happens if I do not make it to the finish line?
--------------------------------------------------------

The training is organized as a self-study training because the levels of
pre-existing knowledge the participants bring to the table when entering the
training vary immensely. Thus, the pace with which the exercises are completed
is not really aligned, and is not intended to be.

Consequently, it may be that not everyone completes all exercises within the
four days of the training. This is fine, the training is about learning and
understanding things by doing them, not completing a set of tasks when under
pressure.

To nonetheless guide through the core contents of the course, we have marked
sections as core and elective, respectively, and added some general information
on the expected time frame for completion of the core material. You will find
this information both in the top-level introduction and in every individual
section.

Why did you choose Java and not some fancier modern language like ...?
----------------------------------------------------------------------

We tried to achieve a good balance between a language where the conceptual
patterns are reasonably clear (classes, interfaces, ...) and one that you are
likely to encounter on projects. As Java is still one of the most widely used
programming languages especially in the business context and is likely to remain
that due to its outstanding track of backwards compatibility (old code is still
very likely to just work today), we chose Java.

Why is there no standard solution presented at the end?
-------------------------------------------------------

Everyone who enters this training should have the same chance of doing the
exercises, and we explicitly want to discourage just checking a prepared
solution and copying it. Since the design of good exercises is not an easy feat,
we cannot create new ones for every iteration. Hence, we choose to not give out
a standard solution, but will try and help you (via code reviews, hints and
answering questions) to create one for yourself. Furthermore, there may be more
than one correct way of solving an exercise, and we do not want to rank
perfectly valid solutions.

Why do you not present partial code snippets to overcome some hurdles?
----------------------------------------------------------------------

It is a common scenario on a project that you have to find a solution to a
problem that is not at the core of your current task, for example converting
date formats. To prepare you for such situations and to have a realistic
training experience, we do not just simply hand you the solutions. However,
should you get stuck on such a problem for too long, i.e. 5-10 minutes, your
colleagues and we are just a Teams message away.

I thought this was a programming training, why is there so much of Git?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Well, programming on projects is a collaborative task. Hence, the less trouble
you have with collaborating via Git, the more programming you will be able to do
on your future projects.

Why is it a remote training and not an on-site one?
---------------------------------------------------

The training was created during the home office phase where remote trainings
were the only real option. Since most trainings are still done remotely and a
large part of the training is individual time on the computer anyway, there are
currently no plans to change it to an on-site training. However, this may change
in the future.
